README.md, before:

# Pomme-de-Terre - "JournaListen"
Prototype (GitHub Preview - Updated 26.10.16): http://bit.ly/2eIeuSK 

In order to get the full functionality of the JournaListen site, please use Google Chrome.

You will also need to install the ChromeVox extension before you begin: http://www.chromevox.com/

Please find the annotated bibliography of the JournaListen protype here: (need to insert link when finished)

# Introduction
JournaListen, a service dedicated to delivering timely news to people living with low visibility or are visually impaired. It is aimed at giving people living with a visual impairment an opportunity to listen to lively news articles and create social interactions.
This site encourages users with journalistic flair to record news articles for its users. Furthermore, enables the visually impaired to join discussions on breaking news and news articles compelling the user to state their opinion. Thus creating an inclusive environment encouraging social, online interaction for people living with a visual impairment.

# Team
The team consists of the following four members who possess a variety of skillsets and interests.

|Name              |Student Number| Course Code|
|------------------|--------------|------------|
|Gima Auo          |43203305      |DECO3500    |
|Emma Gelsomino    |43203134      |DECO3500    |
|Taylor Rose       |43900330      |DECO3500    |
|Rawan Albusayli   |43851450      |DECO7350    |

### Roles and Responsibilities
After discussion amongst the team, Taylor will lead the team and manage the project. This will involve the scheduling of meetings and ensuring all tasks are on track to be completed in appropriate time frames.  Although each member will be working together to complete the project, we have additionally elected the following roles and responsibilities:

* **Rawan:** Backend of the application such as programming and prototyping.
* **Emma:** User interfaces and conducting user experience testing.
* **Gima:** Backend programming and content generation.
* **Taylor:** Application design and backend programming. 

All major decisions that impact the project will be made using the six hats method as this will encourage communication amongst all members.

### Performance Management and Conflict Resolution
The following expectations have been agreed upon by all members:

* All members should endeavour to contribute equal workload to the project.
* Individual tasks should be completed 24 hours prior to submission deadlines, to allow time for other group members to check, edit or offer suggestions.
* If a member is struggling to complete an assigned task by the deadline or to the expected standard, they should notify the group and ask for assistance. 
* Expected standards of works or goals should be agreed upon prior to commencing each task. All elements should pass a series of predetermined tests or ‘acceptance criteria’ before they can be considered complete.

Possible reasons for intervention:

* Missing multiple meetings without informing the team
* Underperformance with assigned tasks or not completing on time
* Unequal contribution to the project’s workload
* Conflict between team members

It is important that all group members are aware of the correct protocol in order to resolve conflict or performance issues. In the event that conflict arises within the group, the following steps will be taken. 

1. An informal meeting with all parties involved where the problem can be discussed. This informal setting will minimize hostility as it allows all parties to provide input and suggest solutions or possible courses of action.  
2. The team leader, unless they are the party involved in the conflict, will intervene and act as an objective third party. The third party should ask each member to explain their problems/challenges and should then suggest solutions that may be agreeable to all parties. 
3. If the conflict is still not resolved the DECO3500 staff should be notified. 

# Communication

### Meetings
The primary tool of communication will be WhatsApp and it should be checked daily to ensure all members are up to date with the project. If a member is unreachable, then the secondary methods of communication will be phone and email. 

Initially, the group has agreed to meet weekly during the Workshop session (Friday 10:00-12:00). A member must notify other group members via WhatsApp if they are not able to attend the session. Acceptable reasons for non-attendance:

* Sickness
* Work or sporting commitments
* Other emergency 

The group should provide the absent member with a summary of what was covered in the meeting and any goals or tasks to be completed in the week ahead. If it is deemed necessary by all group members an additional meeting may be scheduled on another day. 

### Google Drive
All files will be stored in a private Google Drive folder that will only be accessible to our group members. Google Drive was selected due to its excellent real-time collaboration facilitating the editing and creation of documents by multiple users, and additionally for its compatibility features. It also facilitates communication through the ability to leave comments to other group members and respond to comments. 

Folders will be used to organize the drive and the group has agreed to the following naming conventions:

* Communication
* Deliverables
* Documentation
* Resources

Files will be organised using the following naming conventions:

* Camelback notation for images, sketches, etc - ie homeButton.png
* Documentation to be submitted as TeamName_FileName - ie PommeDeTerre_Proposal
* Documentation to be submitted as a PDF unless otherwise specified 


### Other Social Platforms
Additionally, the team will be using Slack, Zenhub and GitHub in completion of this project. Each of these technologies have been selected as the group believes they will improve our communication.

* **Slack** - allows for synchronous communication on different devices. Slack is also extremely beneficial as it is able to be integrated with Google Drive Folder, Zenhub and also our GitHub.
* **Zenhub** - a project management tool which will facilitate group work, deadlines and scheduling within the group.
* **GitHub** - facilitates the ability to share source code and store issues and other documentation.

# Key Deliverables
The project has the following key deliverables:

|Deliverable              |Date        | Percentage |
|-------------------------|------------|------------|
|Week 8 Standup           |16/09/2016  |5%          |
|Week 10 Standup          |07/10/2016  |5%          |
|Week 12 Standup          |21/10/2016  |5%          |
|Prototype                |28/10/2016  |15%         |
|Promotional Material     |28/10/2016  |10%         |

# Tags
The following 5 key concepts have been selected as the tags from the social and mobile lectures:
* Awareness
* Conversation
* Focus
* Filtration
* Sharing

The following 2 keywords have been selected as related to journalism and news:
* Relevance
* Informative

Commit message:

Added promotional material and pdf proof
Full version of annotated portfolio to come.

README.md, after:

# Pomme-de-Terre - "JournaListen"

View the Promotional Video here: https://vimeo.com/189228223

Prototype (GitHub Preview - Updated 26.10.16): http://bit.ly/2eIeuSK 

In order to get the full functionality of the JournaListen site, please use Google Chrome.

You will also need to install the ChromeVox extension before you begin: http://www.chromevox.com/

Please find the Annotated Portfolio of the JournaListen prototype here: https://github.com/deco3500/Pomme-de-Terre/blob/master/DECO3500%20JournaListen%20-%20PDF%20proof.pdf

# Introduction
JournaListen, a service dedicated to delivering timely news to people living with low visibility or are visually impaired. It is aimed at giving people living with a visual impairment an opportunity to listen to lively news articles and create social interactions.
This site encourages users with journalistic flair to record news articles for its users. Furthermore, enables the visually impaired to join discussions on breaking news and news articles compelling the user to state their opinion. Thus creating an inclusive environment encouraging social, online interaction for people living with a visual impairment.

# Team
The team consists of the following four members who possess a variety of skillsets and interests.

|Name              |Student Number| Course Code|
|------------------|--------------|------------|
|Gima Auo          |43203305      |DECO3500    |
|Emma Gelsomino    |43203134      |DECO3500    |
|Taylor Rose       |43900330      |DECO3500    |
|Rawan Albusayli   |43851450      |DECO7350    |

### Roles and Responsibilities
After discussion amongst the team, Taylor will lead the team and manage the project. This will involve the scheduling of meetings and ensuring all tasks are on track to be completed in appropriate time frames.  Although each member will be working together to complete the project, we have additionally elected the following roles and responsibilities:

* **Rawan:** Backend of the application such as programming and prototyping.
* **Emma:** User interfaces and conducting user experience testing.
* **Gima:** Backend programming and content generation.
* **Taylor:** Application design and backend programming. 

All major decisions that impact the project will be made using the six hats method as this will encourage communication amongst all members.

### Performance Management and Conflict Resolution
The following expectations have been agreed upon by all members:

* All members should endeavour to contribute equal workload to the project.
* Individual tasks should be completed 24 hours prior to submission deadlines, to allow time for other group members to check, edit or offer suggestions.
* If a member is struggling to complete an assigned task by the deadline or to the expected standard, they should notify the group and ask for assistance. 
* Expected standards of works or goals should be agreed upon prior to commencing each task. All elements should pass a series of predetermined tests or ‘acceptance criteria’ before they can be considered complete.

Possible reasons for intervention:

* Missing multiple meetings without informing the team
* Underperformance with assigned tasks or not completing on time
* Unequal contribution to the project’s workload
* Conflict between team members

It is important that all group members are aware of the correct protocol in order to resolve conflict or performance issues. In the event that conflict arises within the group, the following steps will be taken. 

1. An informal meeting with all parties involved where the problem can be discussed. This informal setting will minimize hostility as it allows all parties to provide input and suggest solutions or possible courses of action.  
2. The team leader, unless they are the party involved in the conflict, will intervene and act as an objective third party. The third party should ask each member to explain their problems/challenges and should then suggest solutions that may be agreeable to all parties. 
3. If the conflict is still not resolved the DECO3500 staff should be notified. 

# Communication

### Meetings
The primary tool of communication will be WhatsApp and it should be checked daily to ensure all members are up to date with the project. If a member is unreachable, then the secondary methods of communication will be phone and email. 

Initially, the group has agreed to meet weekly during the Workshop session (Friday 10:00-12:00). A member must notify other group members via WhatsApp if they are not able to attend the session. Acceptable reasons for non-attendance:

* Sickness
* Work or sporting commitments
* Other emergency 

The group should provide the absent member with a summary of what was covered in the meeting and any goals or tasks to be completed in the week ahead. If it is deemed necessary by all group members an additional meeting may be scheduled on another day. 

### Google Drive
All files will be stored in a private Google Drive folder that will only be accessible to our group members. Google Drive was selected due to its excellent real-time collaboration facilitating the editing and creation of documents by multiple users, and additionally for its compatibility features. It also facilitates communication through the ability to leave comments to other group members and respond to comments. 

Folders will be used to organize the drive and the group has agreed to the following naming conventions:

* Communication
* Deliverables
* Documentation
* Resources

Files will be organised using the following naming conventions:

* Camelback notation for images, sketches, etc - ie homeButton.png
* Documentation to be submitted as TeamName_FileName - ie PommeDeTerre_Proposal
* Documentation to be submitted as a PDF unless otherwise specified 


### Other Social Platforms
Additionally, the team will be using Slack, Zenhub and GitHub in completion of this project. Each of these technologies have been selected as the group believes they will improve our communication.

* **Slack** - allows for synchronous communication on different devices. Slack is also extremely beneficial as it is able to be integrated with Google Drive Folder, Zenhub and also our GitHub.
* **Zenhub** - a project management tool which will facilitate group work, deadlines and scheduling within the group.
* **GitHub** - facilitates the ability to share source code and store issues and other documentation.

# Key Deliverables
The project has the following key deliverables:

|Deliverable              |Date        | Percentage |
|-------------------------|------------|------------|
|Week 8 Standup           |16/09/2016  |5%          |
|Week 10 Standup          |07/10/2016  |5%          |
|Week 12 Standup          |21/10/2016  |5%          |
|Prototype                |28/10/2016  |15%         |
|Promotional Material     |28/10/2016  |10%         |

# Tags
The following 5 key concepts have been selected as the tags from the social and mobile lectures:
* Awareness
* Conversation
* Focus
* Filtration
* Sharing

The following 2 keywords have been selected as related to journalism and news:
* Relevance
* Informative
